# Description

This repo documents the first version of the sequencing metadata integration pipeline that was used in Washington state early in the COVID-19 pandemic (2021-2023). The pipeline ingested SARS-COV2 sequencing metadata from laboratories and submitters, processed the data, and exports it to our data base, the Washington Disease Reporting System (WDRS). These data were then used to make reports and inferences about variants and COVID-19 spread in Washington state. This repo is not meant for use, but rather to document the code that was used during the pandemic. This is a transparent look at how data were processed under the unusual circumstances during the COVID-19 pandemic. Many aspects of this pipeline are inefficient because it was built under a rapidly changing environment, one that had never been built before, in addition to the many time constraints placed on our teams to produce data reports quickly. Some of the inefficiencies exposed in this pipeline still exist with our newer pipelines, but our teams are working to build a more sustainable way to process sequencing data of any disease type.


For a more detailed look at the pipeline, please read the manuscript in our github page here https://nw-page.github.io/sequencing_integration_pipeline1.0/. The document comes in multiple formats (HTML, PDF and MS Word) and all the main code is documented under the `Notebooks` tab in the site. There are links to dev containers if you wish to explore the code, although there are no test data sets available at this time. In the future we will push our updated pipelines and test data so that you can explore the code. 
